                 SpliceHack -- Guide for New Players

This guide functions as an introduction to SpliceHack for players who do not
want to be heavily spoiled. This guide assumes you have experience with vanilla
NetHack. If not, please refer to the guidebook.

SpliceHack plays very similarly to vanilla NetHack, and is designed to be easy
for players to adapt to. The following points should bring you up to speed with
the main differences. For a full list of changes that include spoilers, please
see the changelog.

- The first difference you will notice is the addition of several new roles and
  races.
  Roles:
  - Cartomancers are a scroll-focused role that are designed as an homage to
    the culture surrounding trading cards. They can get free uses out of
    scrolls, but have bad proficiencies and receive alignment penalties for
    using a magic marker.
  - Dragonmasters start with a saddled baby dragon, which they raise over time.
    They cannot wear dragon scale mail.
  Races:
  - Lycanthropes are similar to humans, but have permanent, incurable
    lycanthropy. In SpliceHack, changing into your animal form will anger
    guards, which makes this race very difficult. Unlike SLASH'EM, you will
    break out of your armor when changing.
  - Angelic creatures can fly and have no opposed races, but aggravate monsters
    and have a poor set of abilities.
  - Infernal creatures have high maximum abilities and can regenerate, but many
    monsters are hostile to them and they are vulnerable to silver. In
    SpliceHack, silver will deal extra damage to you just like it does to
    monsters.
  - Merfolk can swim and eventually breathe water, but also suffer from a poor
    set of ability scores. Overall, they are one of the easier races.

- The next thing you may notice is your starting pet. You can start with a bird
  instead of a cat or a dog. They are balanced similarly to other pets, but
  may require a few tweaks at some point.
- There are many new monsters and items in SpliceHack. In order to avoid an
  untimely death, make ample use of the farlook command to make sure things are
  what you think they are. Many of the monsters have new abilities that can
  be dangerous to the unaware.
- SpliceHack contains a number of new artifacts. Sacrificing at altars can yield
  different items than you might expect, some of which are quite powerful.
- Monster behavior in SpliceHack may take a little time to get used to. Monsters
  are capable of using a wider variety of items than in vanilla. Additionally,
  the implementation of the grudge patch can lead to monster brawls. Finally,
  monsters can and will sacrifice corpses at coaligned altars.
- Most monsters that originate from vanilla function the same way. The largest
  exception to this is dragons, which have been made scarier.
- Demon lords are not as straightforward about their bribes. Read what they
  say very carefully.
- The ascension run portion of the game in SpliceHack is very different. While
  the mysterious force is no longer an issue, there are several other challenges
  that begin upon completion of the invocation ritual.
- The Oracle's major consultations have been expanded, and she may drop hints
  about some of the other changes in the game.

Additional Commands
- #give can be used to give items to your pet or peaceful monsters, putting the
  items directly in their inventory. This should streamline the process of
  trying to get pets to take something.

While many other differences from vanilla exist, this information should be
enough to prepare you for SpliceHack. Enjoy and good luck.
