            Macintosh-specific help file for NetHack 3.6

The following are options, features, or concerns specific to the
MacOS Classic port of NetHack.  Bug reports, suggestions, comments,
and so on, should be addressed to:

    To: nethack-bugs@nethack.org
    Subject: Mac NetHack 3.6

or you can use our on-line bug reporting form at

    http://www.nethack.org

Please include your machine-type, system software version and other
relevant information (i.e. system extensions, monitor, accelerators
and so on).


=== Configuration of a playground
    NetHack is packaged in a Dungeon Folder which includes:
        NetHack - the application file itself.
        NetHack Defaults - text file for default option settings.
        License - licensing terms for nethack.
        Guidebook - description of the game in long format.
        Recover - the application to restore save files from crashed games.
    Previous versions had a large number of data files in the Dungeon
    Folder.  These are now packaged as resources inside the application
    file and will no longer appear in the Dungeon Folder.

    During play another file type appears:
        Player level files (labelled "iName.n", i is a constant number,
            Name is the player name and n is the dungeon level).

    Two other types of files will appear in the Dungeon Folder
    as a result of playing NetHack:
        Bones files (of previously deceased players).
        Saved games (labelled "save/iName", i is a number, same as above,
            and Name is the player name).

    The following files or file types may be thrown away:
        logfile - if it becomes too large.  A new one will be generated.
        Player level files _not_ belonging to a game in progress.
            Alternatively, these files may be processed by Recover,
            which may be able to restore a save file from the level files.
        Old bones files and saved games.


=== Resuming a saved game
    Double-click (or open) the desired saved game file or open NetHack
    and answer the "Who are you?" dialog with the player name of
    the saved game in the Dungeon Folder.


=== Windows
    The Dungeon Map and Message windows are the essential windows used
    during window-mode play.  During tty-mode play there is only one
    window which displays the map, messages, lists and other info.
    For window-mode play, lists (e.g. the list of objects that may
    be wielded) and special info windows appear as needed.  Windows
    may be closed in the normal ways (i.e. clicking their close box,
    choosing 'Close' from the File menu or typing the command
    equivalent for 'Close', cmd-W) and the list windows may also be
    dismissed by hitting the space bar (or Return or Enter Keys).
    Hitting the ESCape key will dismiss special windows without
    scrolling to the end.

    The command "Reposition" on the File menu may be used to restore the
    the startup sizes and locations of the various windows.  The
    window positions are saved in a file labelled "NetHack Windows"
    in the appropriate preferences folder.


=== Default options
    The following options are specific to the Macintosh port:
    background:  - black or white
    MACgraphics  - use enhanced dungeon map symbols [TRUE]
    page_wait    - display  --MORE--  after messages [TRUE]

    Default options may be set by editing the NetHack Defaults text
    file (using SimpleText or your favorite editor).  The following
    notation is used:

        OPTIONS=name:Arnold,time,!tombstone

    It should also be mentioned here that there are two graphic
    interface modes available: 'mac' and 'tty'.  Choosing between
    these interfaces is accomplished by the option:
    window:mac - the default multi-window Macintosh(tm) interface.
    window:tty - traditional Unix(tm)-style TTY window interface.

    See option help (?f or ?g) for more details.


=== Movement by mouse
    The shape (direction) of the cursor over the Dungeon Map window,
    typically, indicates the direction that you desire to move in when
    the mouse is clicked.  Modifier keys affect mouse-movement in the
    same way that they affect keyboard movement.  Clicking on yourself
    means rest one turn and Shift-clicking on yourself means "open door"
    in the subsequently indicated direction.


=== Sounds
    Real sounds (resources) have been added for various instruments.
    The option "silent" [FALSE] controls whether or not a sound will
    be heard when an instrument is applied.


=== Explore and Debug Modes
    As of version 3.1.2, you can enter Explore (aka Discover) mode or
    Debug (aka Wizard) mode by choosing the appropriate entries on the
    'Mode' popup-menu section of the "Who are you?" startup dialog.
    This same dialog allows you to specify your role, race, gender,
    alignment, and name, of course.

    Starting in Explore mode is essentially the same as playing in
    Regular mode except that if you are killed then you are given an
    opportunity to override your death.  Because of this advantage,
    your Explore mode scores are not entered on the scoreboard record.
    You also get a wand of wishing in your starting inventory and can
    see your intrinsic abilities using the command ctl-X (also available
    on the 'Explore' submenu on the File menu).

    Starting in Debug mode is only intended for developers and others
    interested in characterizing bugs.  Using this mode for other
    purposes will have confusing results and eliminate your enjoyment
    of the game!


=== Menus
    As of version 3.1.2, the menus have been reworked to provide access
    to all the NetHack commands and a special 'Kbd' menu was added to
    facilitate play using only the mouse.  In some cases, a command may
    appear on more than one menu.  In general, the commands have been
    grouped to appear on an appropriate menu:
    File  - commands related to windows, start mode and play control.
    Help  - info commands generally not related to a specific game (i.e.
            (key descriptions, version info, internal option editor).
    Info  - commands that are generally game-specific (i.e. inventory
            related, describe features seen on the map or name things).
    Equip - commands related to things you might wield or wear.
    Act   - commands for actions that you might do alone (i.e. wait,
            jump) or do with another dungeon denizen (i.e. pay, chat).
    Magic - commands for things that you might do with items (drop,
            eat, read) or spell-related.
    Bits  - commands for things you might do to dungeon pieces (i.e.
            open door, loot chest, engrave on the floor, climb stairs).

    The key related to a command generally appears to the left of the
    menu entry for that command (i.e. w for wield and W for wear). A
    leftmost # denotes an extended command (without a related key) and
    a left cloverleaf or command symbol denotes a command that requires
    either a control or command key modifier (i.e. holding down the
    control or command key while hitting the related key).


===
The members of the Macintosh NetHack port team hope you enjoy this game.
